---
layout: post
title: Project Part 1 Description: Astrophysical Neutrino Flavour Classification in IceCube Neutrino Observatory
---
The data presented are the results from the collection of events recorded at the IceCube Neutrino Observatory. Located in the Antarctic, the large apparatus is embeded deep within the dark and thick Antarctic ice and used to detect fundamental particle interactions triggered by neutrinos. The measurement technique used is optical detection of Cherenkov ratiation, emitted due to the speed of relativistic muons moving faster than the local speed of light in the ice. This creates an analogous "sonic boom" of blue light that is measured by digital optical modules (DOM) in the ice. By analysing this data and in accordance to predictions made by the literature, the nature of the preliminary deductive statiscial analysis suggests that classification of the exact neutrino flavour that initiated the Cherenkov light burst can be directly determined using the measurements of the optical parameter, q. The data is supplied by the Particle Physics Playground[1].

This is a two dimensional quantitative dataset (technically three dimensional since there are 10, 2D events) consisting of seven columns which characterize the optical intensity, location and time of recorded "hits" by the DOM modules in the IceCube experiment. The colun names are ’hits/nhits’, ’hits/q’, ’hits/t’, ’hits/x’, ’hits/y’, ’hits/z’. "The index column is simply an index ranging from 0 to 843 that organizes the data. The ’nhits’ column represents the number of total recorded hits that were measured within the particular event and is constant for all index values within any given event. The ’hits/q’ column is a measure of the charge collected by the DOM modules which is directly proportional to the optical signal produced due to the Cherenkov radiation emitted by the charged and neutral current interactions. Similarly, ’hits/t’ is the corresponding hits recorded per unit time. Finally, the columns ’hits/x’, ’hits/y’, ’hits/z’ describe the location in Cartesian coordinate space that the detector that recorded the light is located A hit refers to the detection of light by the optical modules whereas an event refers to the duration of time over which several hits occur."[2] Specifically, within each numbered dataset, there are 844 rows by 7 columns meaning there are a total of 5908 total smaple points. I chose this data as I wanted to be able to explore the interactions of cosmic neutrinos and investigate how photonic/optical devices can be used in physics outside of my typical brand of research. The data has the following properties. It is quantiative data which is collected randomly and unbiased; this means that there is an equal likelihood of any detector observing a hit. It takes a positivistic paradigm which uses the deductive statisics to analyze the quantitative data to reach conclusions. Two strong reads that can be investigated for more information includes "The IceCube Neutrino Detector at the South Pole Hits Paydirt"[3] for a lighter and less involved introduction to the IceCube experiment. For a more indepth paper regarding a method of distinguishing neutrino flavours using the IceCube observatory, consider "Which is the flavor of cosmic neutrinos seen by IceCube?"[4] which outlines the method of considering the ratio of observed track and shower interactions observed by the DOM's.

References 
[1]Particle-Physics-Playground (2025b). Ice cube introduction. Accessed: 2025-
02-22.
[2] J. Cuzzupoli (2025). Classifying Neutrino Flavor Based on Cherenkov Radiation Optical Signal In IceCube 
Neutrino Observatory Data Exploration and Literature Review
[3]Cass, S. (2018). The icecube neutrino detector at the south pole hits paydirt.
Accessed: 2025-02-19.
[4] A. Palladino, e. a. (2015). Which is the flavor of cosmic neutrinos seen by
icecube? arXiv preprint.

